# Rain-water-harvesting-
This project done on college level project. based on real problem. To collect Rain water and collect in tank. than done filter process and use it. in this project i done many things based on practicals. 

                  Water is a one of the most important resources for survival of human being as much as food, air etc, but very few attentions are paid for its economical use and conservation of this precious resource. Due to over pumping of ground water, the water table is going down abnormally and if the problem is not given a serious look, then the future generations may have to face severe scarcity of water. Rainfall is the prime source of water and if rain water is harvested, the scarcity of water can be eliminated altogether. This is an ideal solution to overcome water problem where surface water sources are insufficient and inadequate groundwater supply quantitatively and qualitatively. RWH is the process of collecting and storing water for future productive use. Rooftop RWH is the technique through which rain water is captured from the roof catchments and stored in reservoirs. Rooftop RWH is essential for making water available for future use. This method is particularly important in drought prone, hilly, urban and coastal areas. In fact, India and Maharashtra is blessed with adequate rainfall as a whole, yet there are large swathes of dry and drought prone area. In many places the quality of groundwater is not good. Some areas having quite even rainfall but there is also problem of a severe scarcity of drinking water.
    This is because we have rainfall in short spells of high intensity. Due to this intensity and short duration of heavy rain, most of the rain falling on surface tends to flow away rapidly and leaving very little for the recharge of ground. Therefore, it is necessary for users to collect and store rainwater. Rainwater harvesting through rooftops is an optimistic method of water conservation and Indian government has mounted this as a part of watershed management programme. Surface water is inadequate to meet our requirements hence we have to make use of ground water. Due to overuse of ground water, underground water level has been declining in such areas RWH is an ideal solution in near future. Therefore, attempt has been made here to examine the present status of water requirement and proposed rooftop RWH potential at micro level.
